doc/JSON_TOOLS.md, before:

# JSON tools

In the `tools/json_tools/` folder you will find several scripts for working with JSON data, written in
[python](https://python.org) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/).

## Keys and Values

The `keys.py` and `values.py` scripts are related, with similar usage:

- `keys.py` counts how many times each key (field) occurs throughout all matching JSON data.  You
might use this to learn how many items have "weight" and/or "volume", or what fields are used most
often by "overmap_special" types, for example.

- `values.py` counts how many times each value occurs in a given key (field).  Use this if you want
to know what different "volume" or "weight" values items have, or to look up all "id" values from a
set of matching items, for instance.

Run either script with `-h` to see help on their command-line options.  Both scripts output JSON
text by default, but you can pass the `--human` option for output in a more human-readable format.

You can run these scripts from the root `Cataclysm-DDA` directory using a relative path:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py -h
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py --human type=TOOL
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key material type=TOOL
```

Or, `cd` into the `tools/json_tools` directory and execute the Python scripts in
that directory - it will still work the same:

```console
$ cd tools/json_tools

$ ./keys.py -h
$ ./keys.py --human type=TOOL
$ ./values.py --key material type=TOOL
```

## Examples

Here is `keys.py` showing how many `TOOL` types have each key defined (abbreviated for simplicity,
since the full list is rather long).  Out of 752 tools, all of them have `type` and `name` defined,
but only some of them include `pocket_data` or `longest_side`:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py --human type=TOOL

Count of keys
(Data from 752 out of 25050 blobs)
-------------
type         : 752
name         : 752
weight       : 656
pocket_data  : 143
looks_like   : 101
techniques   : 92
longest_side : 56
...
```

Here is `values.py` printing the number of `TOOL` type items having each `material` value.  The
`MISSING` column tells how many tools have no `material` defined in their JSON:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key material --human type=TOOL

Count of values from field 'material'
(Data from 752 out of 25050 blobs)
-------------
steel    : 295
plastic  : 245
MISSING  : 105
aluminum : 73
wood     : 70
glass    : 35
...
```

Show values of "longest_side" defined for `TOOL` type items in the `weapon` category, including how
many items are *missing* an explicit value for "longest_side":

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key longest_side type=TOOL category=weapon

{"50 cm": 10, "40 cm", 1, "MISSING": 95, "20 cm": 2, "100 cm": 6, ...}
```

Pipe output to `lister.py` to get a distinct list of alphabetized keys from a JSON string.  For
example, to list all `type` values alone, without counting how many of each:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key type | tools/json_tools/lister.py

["AMMO", "ARMOR", "BATTERY", "BIONIC_ITEM", "BOOK", "COMESTIBLE", ...]
```


## Table of examples

| Desired keys | Command-line
| ---          | ---
| of `material` types | `keys.py type=material`
| of `overmap_special` types | `keys.py type=overmap_special`
| of `weapons` category | `keys.py category=weapons`
| of `weapons` with `wood` material | `keys.py category=weapons material=wood`

| Desired info | Command-line
| ---          | ---
| All `type` values in all JSON data | `values.py -k type`
| All `category` values in all JSON data | `values.py -k category`
| IDs of items with `material` including `kevlar` | `values.py -k id material=kevlar`
| IDs of all `MAGAZINE` types | `values.py -k id type=MAGAZINE`
| Materials of all `GUN` items | `values.py -k material type=GUN`
| Materials of all `TOOL` items | `values.py -k material type=TOOL`
| Encumbrances of `ARMOR` made of `leather` | `values.py -k encumbrance type=ARMOR material=leather`
| All `mutation` type `category` values | `values.py -k category type=mutation`
| Addiction types of `COMESTIBLE` items | `values.py -k addiction_type type=COMESTIBLE`

Commit message:

Add nested objects and dotted key notation to JSON tools (#41319)
* Include nested objects and lists in keys.py output

This commit allows keys.py to include sub-keys from within object values
such as "name", and list-of-object values such as "pocket_data", printed
in parent.child dotted key notation.

Comment keys starting with "//" are now skipped.

* Add --key parent.child support to values.py

This commit refactors the values.py script to recursively descend into
objects and lists in JSON values, accumulating values from fields nested
within those objects.

Furthermore, it adds support for the values.py `--key` argument to use
dotted parent.child notation to designate keys within nested objects and
object lists, such as `pocket_data.pocket_type`.

* Ignore comments in subkeys in keys.py

* Refactor, clean up, and comment

* Include docs on dot notation for keys/values.py

doc/JSON_TOOLS.md, after:

# JSON tools

In the `tools/json_tools/` folder you will find several scripts for working with JSON data, written in
[python](https://python.org) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/).

## Keys and Values

The `keys.py` and `values.py` scripts are related, with similar usage:

- `keys.py` counts how many times each key (field) occurs throughout all matching JSON data.  You
might use this to learn how many items have "weight" and/or "volume", or what fields are used most
often by "overmap_special" types, for example.

- `values.py` counts how many times each value occurs in a given key (field).  Use this if you want
to know what different "volume" or "weight" values items have, or to look up all "id" values from a
set of matching items, for instance.

Run either script with `-h` to see help on their command-line options.  Both scripts output JSON
text by default, but you can pass the `--human` option for output in a more human-readable format.

You can run these scripts from the root `Cataclysm-DDA` directory using a relative path:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py -h
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py --human type=TOOL
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key material type=TOOL
```

Or, `cd` into the `tools/json_tools` directory and execute the Python scripts in
that directory - it will still work the same:

```console
$ cd tools/json_tools

$ ./keys.py -h
$ ./keys.py --human type=TOOL
$ ./values.py --key material type=TOOL
```

## Examples

Here is `keys.py` showing how many `TOOL` types have each key defined (abbreviated for simplicity,
since the full list is rather long).  Out of 752 tools, all of them have `type` and `name` defined,
but only some of them include `pocket_data` or `longest_side`:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py --human type=TOOL

Count of keys
(Data from 752 out of 25050 blobs)
-------------
type         : 752
name         : 752
weight       : 656
pocket_data  : 143
looks_like   : 101
techniques   : 92
longest_side : 56
...
```

Here is `values.py` printing the number of `TOOL` type items having each `material` value.  The
`MISSING` column tells how many tools have no `material` defined in their JSON:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key material --human type=TOOL

Count of values from field 'material'
(Data from 752 out of 25050 blobs)
-------------
steel    : 295
plastic  : 245
MISSING  : 105
aluminum : 73
wood     : 70
glass    : 35
...
```

Show values of "longest_side" defined for `TOOL` type items in the `weapon` category, including how
many items are *missing* an explicit value for "longest_side":

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key longest_side type=TOOL category=weapon

{"50 cm": 10, "40 cm", 1, "MISSING": 95, "20 cm": 2, "100 cm": 6, ...}
```

Pipe output to `lister.py` to get a distinct list of alphabetized keys from a JSON string.  For
example, to list all `type` values alone, without counting how many of each:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py --key type | tools/json_tools/lister.py

["AMMO", "ARMOR", "BATTERY", "BIONIC_ITEM", "BOOK", "COMESTIBLE", ...]
```

The `keys.py` output will use `parent.child` dotted notation for objects nested within one another.
For example, the "name" value is often an object including a pluralized form, and items with
"pocket_data" typically contain a nested list of objects in their JSON. The dot indicates keys
within those objects:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/keys.py type=ARMOR | tools/json_tools/lister.py

{ ..., "pocket_data.max_contains_volume", "pocket_data.max_item_length", "pocket_data.pocket_type", ... }
```

These dotted keys can be passed as the `-k` or `--key` argument of `values.py`, to inspect values
within those nested objects or lists of objects in the JSON data. For example, to look at the values
of "max_item_length" within the "pocket_data" objects of `ARMOR` types:

```console
$ tools/json_tools/values.py -k pocket_data.max_item_length type=ARMOR

{ "25 cm": 1, "140 cm": 1, "16 cm": 1, "50 cm": 5, "MISSING": 785, ... }
```


## Examples and use cases

| Desired keys | Command-line
| ---          | ---
| of `material` types | `keys.py type=material`
| of `overmap_special` types | `keys.py type=overmap_special`
| of `weapons` category | `keys.py category=weapons`
| of `weapons` with `wood` material | `keys.py category=weapons material=wood`

| Desired info | Command-line
| ---          | ---
| All `type` values in all JSON data | `values.py -k type`
| All `category` values in all JSON data | `values.py -k category`
| IDs of items with `material` including `kevlar` | `values.py -k id material=kevlar`
| IDs of all `MAGAZINE` types | `values.py -k id type=MAGAZINE`
| Materials of all `GUN` items | `values.py -k material type=GUN`
| Materials of all `TOOL` items | `values.py -k material type=TOOL`
| Encumbrances of `ARMOR` made of `leather` | `values.py -k encumbrance type=ARMOR material=leather`
| All `mutation` type `category` values | `values.py -k category type=mutation`
| Addiction types of `COMESTIBLE` items | `values.py -k addiction_type type=COMESTIBLE`
| Valid targets of `SPELL` types | `values.py -k valid_targets type=SPELL`
| Monster conditions in `monstergroup` types | `values.py -k monsters.conditions type=monstergroup`
