## NPCs

- Arturo Maldonado, follower: a recovering drug addict.  Joined not long before the Cataclysm to seek penance for his past sins.
- Aunt Theresa, follower: Helena’s aunt. Reminisces a lot, was mostly a housewife but also did low-level admin before retiring. Is very into cooking, gardening, and building, but has grown frail recently. Is tired of life.
- Chloe Taylor King, follower: lost her parents during the Cataclysm and has a hard time adjusting to this new way of life. Not a useful member of the sect but is allowed to stay because her parents have contributed to the stockpile. 
- Corrie Kaja Dosia, outsider: does menial jobs for the sect. Witnessed all her friends die while trying to flee the city and is still terrorized about it. Hates living here but is too scared to leave the safety of the settlement. Is willing to join up with you. Used to be a mechanic.
- Darryl Johnstone, follower: farmer and husband of Gemma Johnstone. Are trying for a baby. Old-school religious. His goal is to improve the quality of life in the settlement, he needs the player’s help in gathering supplies for creating a well and making a chicken coop. Sells farming equipment (mainly seeds).
- Eddie McKenzie, follower: the stockpile’s guardian. Joined the sect to ease the loss of his mother. Very fanatical. Has a soft spot for families.
- Father Greenwood, clergyman: the spiritual leader of the NECC. Offers guidance, hears confessions, and generally dumps lore on the player. His missions include retrieving religious artefacts, gathering sacred texts, and purging pagans (Marloss Evangelists).
- Felicity Powell, follower: wife of Tom Powell, mother of Olwen Powell. Is religious, but a little resentful of Helena’s leadership. Shares her food with Sonia and Jane. Was a secretary but aspired of becoming a writer.
- Gemma Johnstone, dorm leader: core member of the sect and wife of Darryl Johnstone. Are trying for a baby. Very fanatical. Used to be a biology teacher. Joined the NECC in its early days, and met her husband through the sect. Loves gardening (and indoor plants).
- Jane Schulz, outsider: was an MD before the Cataclysm. Called in sick during the riots to avoid being in the epicenter of violence. Has treated a few cuts and bruises in her time in the settlement, although the NECC prefers faith healing and Kostas’ herbal medicine to her medical knowledge.  
- Jeremiah Weaver, follower: son of Simon and Katherine Weaver. Resents his mother’s overbearingness. Wishes to study herbology with Kostas. Was homeschooled.
- Julian Ray, dorm leader: Olwen’s boyfriend. Used to be a cop. Feels remorse for abandoning his colleagues during the riots. Had a religious upbringing but lost his faith growing up. Joined the NECC to rekindle his connection with God.
- Katherine Weaver, follower: wife of Simon Weaver and mother of Jeremiah Weaver. Strongly dislikes outsiders living in their settlement and wants to protect his child from such negative influences. She played a huge part in organizing charities for the needy and feels that her efforts went unnoticed.
- Kostas Walsman, follower: experienced herbalist. Believes that humanity has had it coming for a very long time. Is very spiritual. Sells medicinal herbs to the player.
- Maria Serrano, follower: was a tailor before the Cataclysm. Could make some customized armor for the player if asked nicely and given enough raw materials. Very fanatical about the sect.
- Helena Misinter, leader: temporal leader of the sect. Fanatical about the sect and had always been religious in some form. Not as charismatic as her uncle, comes across as a bit of a hard-ass. 
- Olwen Powell, follower: daughter of Tom Powell and Felicity Powell, Julian’s girlfriend. Raised very independent. Not too keen on religion.  Knows this and that about computers (and how to hack them). Could teach the player if they bring a laptop.
- Russell Connely, follower: hunter and a former hermit. Fanatical about the sect. Is very intrigued about the new fauna the Second Flood brought and wants you to hunt the Beast of the Devil for trophies. Trades fur and leather. Still misses his dog, Betsy.
- Simon Weaver, follower: cook and husband of Katherine Weaver, father of Jeremiah Weaver. Had a rough childhood. Lived in and out of homeless shelters before being rescued by the NECC during one of their charity visits. Has a lot to thank for the sect.
- Sonia Greene, outsider: was a local country singer and guitar player from the band “The Taurists”. Not too happy about her situation but knows she has it much better than her fellow outsiders.  Still plays her songs occasionally. Not religious.
- Tom Powell, follower: husband of Felicity Powell and father of Olwen Powell. A survivalist and a conspiracy nut, he could ramble about theories and government secrets for days. Is more into the survivalist aspect of the sect than religion. Collects newspapers. Wants to preserve works of literature from becoming lost forever. Had a desk job.
- Zachary Montes, outsider: does menial labor for the group. Is very secretive about his past life. Doesn’t like it here but has nowhere else to go. Is willing to join up with you. Was a construction worker.